[Doc Rework] - Encrich sections PR2 (#4181)
telefonicaid/fiware-orion: doc/manuals/orion-api.md

  * If value is null, then `None` is used.

* Attribute `metadata` may be omitted in requests, meaning that there are no metadata elements
  associated to the attribute. What "associated" means depends on `overrideMetadata`:
  * If `overrideMetadata` is not used (default behaviour), it means there are no metadata elements associated to the attribute, *which need to be updated*
  * If `overrideMetadata` is used, it means there are no metadata elements associated to the attribute,
  *as a result of the the attribute update*"

> * In responses, this `metadata` is set to `{}` if the attribute doesn't have any metadata. 
> 
> The metadata update semantics used by Orion Context Broker (and the related `overrideMetadata` 
> option are detailed in [this section of the documentation](metadata.md#updating-metadata).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In responses, `metadata` is set to `{}` if the attribute doesn't have any metadata. 

The metadata update semantics used by Orion Context Broker (and the related `overrideMetadata` 
option are detailed in [this section of the documentation](#updating-metadata).
```

Remove metadata.md is somehow preparing PR3...

  * If value is null, then `None` is used.

* Attribute `metadata` may be omitted in requests, meaning that there are no metadata elements

>   associated to the attribute. In responses, this property is set to `{}` if the attribute 
>   doesn't have any metadata. Depending if `overrideMetadata` is used or not, this sentence has
>   two interpretations:
>   * If `overrideMetadata` is not used (default behaviour) it is interpreted as
>   "... meaning that there are no metadata elements associated to the attribute,
>   **which need to be updated**"
>   * If `overrideMetadata` is used it is interpreted as
>   "... meaning that there are no metadata elements associated to the attribute,
>   **as a result of the the attribute update**"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  associated to the attribute. What "associated" means depends on `overrideMetadata`:
  * If `overrideMetadata` is not used (default behaviour), it means there are no metadata elements associated to the attribute, *which need to be updated*
  * If `overrideMetadata` is used, it means there are no metadata elements associated to the attribute,
  *as a result of the the attribute update*"

* In responses, this `metadata` is set to `{}` if the attribute doesn't have any metadata. 
```

* `dateExpires` (type: `DateTime`): entity expiration date as an ISO 8601 string. How the server
  controls entity expiration is an implementation specific aspect.

* `alterationType` (type: `Text`): specifies the change that triggers the notification. It is related with 

> the [subscriptions based in alteration type](subscriptions_alttype.md) feature. This attribute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the subscriptions based in alteration type features (see [Subscription based in alteration type](#subscriptions_alttype) section). This attribute
```

Preparing the new subsection in PR3

  can be used only in notifications, it does not appear when querying it (`GET /v2/entities?attrs=alterationType`) and can take the following values:
   * `entityCreate` if the update that triggers the notification is a entity creation operation 
   * `entityUpdate` if the update that triggers the notification was an update but it wasn't an actual change
   * `entityChange` if the update that triggers the notification was an update with an actual change or not an actual change but with `forcedUpdate` in use
   * `entityDelete` if the update that triggers the notification was a entity delete operation

> Like regular attributes, they can be used in `q` filters and in `orderBy` (`alterationType` is not included).

Reviewer: Not sure if we should revert this way:

```suggestion
Like regular attributes, they can be used in `q` filters and in `orderBy`.
```

Why the mention to `alterationType` is needed here?

Author: Because in the document `ngsiv2_implementation_notes.md` file, under the section `alterationType` attribute, says:

> Apart from the attributes described in the "Builtin Attributes" section in the NGSIv2 specification,
>  Orion implements the `alterationType` attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like regular attributes, they can be used in `q` filters and in `orderBy` (except `alterationType`).
```

}
```

> * `ignoreType`: When `ignoreType` with value `true` is added to an attribute, Orion will ignore the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `ignoreType`: when `ignoreType` with value `true` is added to an attribute, Orion will ignore the
```

semantics associated to the attribute type. Note that Orion ignored attribute type in general so
this metadata is not needed most of the cases, but there are two cases in which attribute
type has an special semantic for Orion:
   * `DateTime`
   * Geo-location types (`geo:point`, `geo:line`, `geo:box`, `geo:polygon` and `geo:json`)

At the present moment `ignoreType` is supported only for geo-location types, this way allowing a
mechanism to overcome the limit of only one geo-location per entity (more details

> in [Geospatial properties of entities](##geospatial-properties-of-entities) section). Support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in [Geospatial properties of entities](#geospatial-properties-of-entities) section). Support
```

Reviewer: It seems I published twice the same comment due to GitHub glitch. Already applied. NTC

> in [Geospatial properties of entities](##geospatial-properties-of-entities) section). Support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in [Geospatial properties of entities](#geospatial-properties-of-entities) section). Support
```

In addition to the above rules, given NGSIv2 server implementations could add additional syntactical
restrictions in those or other fields, e.g., to avoid cross script injection attacks.

The additional restrictions that apply to Orion are the ones describe in the
[forbidden characters](forbidden_characters.md) section of the manual.

Note that you can use `TextUnrestricted` attribute type (and special attribute type beyond
the ones defined in the NGSIv2 Specification) in order to skip forbidden characters checkings
in the attribute value. However, it could have security implications (possible script
injections attacks) so use it at your own risk!

> 

Reviewer: See comment: https://github.com/telefonicaid/fiware-orion/pull/4181#discussion_r935481280

In addition to the above rules, given NGSIv2 server implementations could add additional syntactical
restrictions in those or other fields, e.g., to avoid cross script injection attacks.

> 

Reviewer: Discussed at skype, two things in this part:

* Avoid "neutral references" (i.e. NGSI2 sever implementations) as this document fully refers to Orion
* Move forbidden_characters.md#general-restrictions into this document. In the same operation, forbidden_characters.md#specific-restrictions-for-id-fields can be removed, as it is doesn't have any sense

  field. On ties, the results are ordered by the second field and so on. A "!" before
  the field name means that the order is reversed.

> How each type is ordered with regard to other types is an implementation aspect. In the case of Orion,
> we use the same criteria as the one used by the underlying implementation (MongoDB). See

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With regards of the ordering of attributes which values belong to several JSON types, Orion 
uses the same criteria as the one used by the underlying implementation (MongoDB). See
```

  complex geospatial shapes, for instance
  [multi geometries](http://www.macwright.org/2015/03/23/geojson-second-bite.html#multi-geometries).

> Current implementation, (based in the [MongoDB capabilities](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/geojson/)) introduces some limitations in the usage of `GeoJSON` representations, supporting only the following types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Current implementation (based in the [MongoDB capabilities](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/geojson/)) introduces some limitations in the usage of `GeoJSON` representations, supporting only the following types:
```

creation/updating time. However, from the point of view of normalization with other `geo:json` types,
it has been decided to return only the `geometry` part. In the future, maybe a flag to return
the full content would be implemented (more detail [in this issue](https://github.com/telefonicaid/fiware-orion/issues/4125)).
Another alternative to disable the special processing of `Feature` or `FeatureCollection` is to use
[`ignoreType` metadata](#ignoretype-metadata) but in that case also entity location will be ignored.

With regards to `FeatureCollection`, it is only accepted at creation/update time only if it contains a single 
`Feature` (i.e. the `features` field has only one element). Otherwise , Orion would return an `BadRequest`error.

The only GeoJSON type not supported at all is `GeometryCollection`. You will get a "Database Error"
if you try to use them.

Client applications are responsible for defining which entity attributes convey geospatial
properties (by providing an appropriate NGSI attribute type). Typically this is an entity attribute
named `location`, but nothing prevents use another different name for the geospatial attribute. 

> Orion limits the number of geospatial attributes is limited to one (1) attribute due to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Orion limits the number of geospatial attributes to one (1) attribute due to
```

> In the case of Orion, the number of geospatial attributes is limited to one (1) attribute due to
> resource constraints imposed by backend databases.
> 
> When spatial index limits are exceeded, Orion rises an error `413`, *Request entity too large*, and
> the reported error on the response payload is `NoResourcesAvailable`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Orion limits the number of geospatial attributes is limited to one (1) attribute due to
resource constraints imposed by backend databases. If additional use attempts to create additional 
location attributes, Orion rises an error `413`, *Request entity too large*, and
the reported error on the response payload is `NoResourcesAvailable`.
```

corresponding subscription), then a value of `custom` is used for the `Ngsiv2-AttrsFormat` header
in the notification.

> An empty string value for a header key in the `headers` object will remove that header from 

Author: Question. It is the best place to this part of the section?

Reviewer: By the moment it's ok. We could reorder and sub-section in a next PR, as part of the "clean and tidy" final works.

NTC

## Custom Notifications

NGSIv2 clients can customize notification messages using a simple template mechanism. The
`notification.httpCustom` property of a subscription allows to specify the following fields
to be templatized when using HTTP notifications:

* `url`
* `headers` (both header name and value can be templatized). Note that `Fiware-Correlator` and
  `Ngsiv2-AttrsFormat` headers cannot be overwritten in custom notifications. Any attempt of 
  doing so (e.g. `"httpCustom": { ... "headers": {"Fiware-Correlator": "foo"} ...}` will be ignored.
* `qs` (both parameter name and value can be templatized)
* `payload`
* `method`, lets the NGSIv2 clients select the HTTP method to be used for delivering
the notification, but note that only valid HTTP verbs can be used: GET, PUT, POST, DELETE, PATCH,
HEAD, OPTIONS, TRACE, and CONNECT.

Regarding the MQTT notifications, the `mqttCustom` is used instead of `httpCustom`. This
topic is described with more detail [in this specific document](user/mqtt_notifications.md).

> 

Author: The text in that part of the document pointing can be embedded here: 

```markdown
Custom notifications (described in the [NGSIv2 specification](http://telefonicaid.github.io/fiware-orion/api/v2/stable))
in MQTT subscriptions work the same as in HTTP subscriptions, taking into account the following:

* `mqttCustom` is used instead of `httpCustom`
* The same fields used in `mqtt` can be used in `mqttCustom`.
* `headers`, `qs` and `method`cannot be used, as they doesn’t have equivalence in MQTT
* Macro replacement is performed in `topic` and `payload` fields. `url`, `qos`, `user` and `passwd` are fixed values
```

Reviewer: The approach before the doc rework is based in using HTTP description as a base and explain MQTT as an "amendment" to that base. However, it would be better a more homogeneous description taking both into account.

Difficult to explain what I have in mind :) I'll take care of this, in a specific commit in the PR

```
"httpCustom": {
   ...
   "json": {
     "t": "${temperature}",
     "h": [ "${humidityMin}", "${humidityMax}" ],
     "v": 4
   }
}
```

Some notes to take into account when using `json`instead of `payload`:

* The value of the `json` field must be an array or object. Although a simple string or number is
  also a valid JSON, these cases are not supported.
* The macro replacement logic works the same way than in `payload` case, with the following
  considerations:
  * It cannot be used in the key part of JSON objects, i.e. `"${key}": 10` will not work
  * The value of the JSON object or JSON array item in which the macro is used has to match
    exactly with the macro expression. Thus, `"t": "${temperature}"` works, but
    `"t": "the temperature is ${temperature}"` or `"h": "humidity ranges from ${humidityMin} to ${humidityMax}"`
    will not work
  * It takes into account the nature of the attribute value to be replaced. For instance,
    `"t": "${temperature}"` resolves to `"t": 10` if temperature attribute is a number or to
    `"t": "10"` if `temperature` attribute is a string.
  * If the attribute doesn't exist in the entity, then `null` value is used

> * URL automatic decoding applied to `payload` and `headers` fields (described

Reviewer: The link is no longer valid when https://github.com/telefonicaid/fiware-orion/pull/4181#discussion_r935498892 gets addressed. Check and fix after that.

    `"t": "10"` if `temperature` attribute is a string.
  * If the attribute doesn't exist in the entity, then `null` value is used
* URL automatic decoding applied to `payload` and `headers` fields (described
  [here](forbidden_characters.md#custom-payload-and-headers-special-treatment)) is not applied
  to `json` field.
* `payload` and `json` cannot be used at the same time
* `Content-Type` header is set to `application/json`, except if overwritten by `headers` field

Some considerations to take into account when using custom notifications:

* It is the NGSIv2 client's responsibility to ensure that after substitution, the notification is a
  correct HTTP message (e.g. if the Content-Type header is application/xml, then the payload must
  correspond to a well-formed XML document). Specifically, if the resulting URL after applying the
  template is malformed, then no notification is sent.
* In case the data to notify contains more than one entity, a separate notification (HTTP message)
  is sent for each of the entities (contrary to default behaviour, which is to send all entities in
  the same HTTP message).

> * Due to forbidden characters restriction, Orion applies an extra decoding step to outgoing

Reviewer: Similar to https://github.com/telefonicaid/fiware-orion/pull/4181#discussion_r935481280

Probably after moving forbidden_characters.md#custom-payload-special-treatment here, the forbidden_characters.md get empty and can be removed (also from mkdocs.yml).
